README.md, before:

# X-Touch Mini FS2020 Template Maker

Utility to turn your [X-Touch Mini FS2020](https://github.com/maartentamboer/X-Touch-Mini-FS2020) configs into SVGs and PNGs.

The PNGs have transparent regions and can be used with paper desktop CNCs such as the Cricut (Print & Cut) to quickly generate paper templates.

This allows you to rapidly experiment with and change your bindings.

You need to have the following installed to `c:`

- [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/)
- [X-Touch Mini FS2020](https://github.com/maartentamboer/X-Touch-Mini-FS2020) (unzip anywhere on `c:`)

Head on to [releases to download the latest version](https://github.com/cgspeck/X-Touch-Mini-FS2020-TemplateMaker/releases), or read on for development instructions.

## Development

Clone the repository and install Python3.9+

Enable [long path support](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/how-to-enable-or-disable-win32-long-paths-in-windows-11-10) if you haven't already done that as part of the python install.

Create and activate a virtual environment:

```
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

Install dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Run:

```
# opens config file selector
python -m template_maker.main

# alternatively, give it a path to a config
python -m template_maker.main --config  c:\bin\X-Touch-Mini-FS2020\Configurations\config_generic_ap.json --preview
```

If you run it without the config flag then a file open dialog will be displayed to allow you to select an aircraft configuration.

Alternatively, you can use the `run.bat` to start the app, after you've set up the virtual environment and installed dependencies as above:

```
run
```

Running the tests:

```
test
```

## Current limitations

- only processes and displays values for Layer A
- does not emit secondary button text (`event_long_press`)

## Inspiration

[Reddit: r/Behringer - Behringer X-Touch mini - Free Layout](https://www.reddit.com/r/Behringer/comments/k0xeeg/behringer_xtouch_mini_free_layout/) and the corresponding link to [Draw.io](https://viewer.diagrams.net/index.html?highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&nav=1&title=Behringer%20X-Touch%20mini.drawio#R3Zpbb9owGIZ%2FDZe1fD7clnZM09ZNYlO33mXEkEgBszQdtL9%2BDjjNETXVqOokXJC8tmP7yYf9vSgTMl3vZ2mwjb6YUCcTDMP9hFxNMEZKQPuVK49OQZgdlVUah04rhXn8pJ3oGq4e4lDf1ypmxiRZvK2LC7PZ6EVW04I0Nbt6taVJ6r1ug5VuCfNFkLTV2zjMomIaXJUFH3W8ilzXEotjwTooKruZ3EdBaHYViVxPyDQ1JjuerfdTneT0Ci7Hdh9OlD4PLNWbrE%2BD1cWaLJfbH78%2FmdtfPxdJ%2FP3z9YW7y98geXATdoPNHgsCqXnYhDq%2FCZqQy10UZ3q%2BDRZ56c4%2BdKtF2Tpxxcs4SaYmMemhLbk8fKzeHmzRs04zva9IbvAzbdY6Sx9tlaKUO5AulIh017vKc8FCAYapej6OVaLKE6IQASZIWYW7aHGRsnruuYRpTxzPbrZ35ubP1d18821GvqqnCM9ubvdnZ3sCWAfW0wwFA4LVMapSqpGkEkDcwY8ICKCQ%2Fw%2BtMyDpy9DsXeyvX78MLLjfHpeEZbzPITejc3o4ct1sMrf0EFVcuw5PMX5N6BKKQZ06pe3gVRLQYnWsAs918ka4yRhx25UQQATLw1P2cozwKaeexnoxjHHxZpL7yhuPkbeA0lfeo9w7JYG%2B8uZj5K2Yr7kKHeV%2BiaDwdcNkPTbM17nDkiVSb%2BsWMWWA16gyiYCgLbBUAFysnDWbwyzYNyN7dt%2F9nmQ5l%2F6Q7ZF0%2BEqWWI5Q%2BRu0Pcyir2ipgl6j7ZG6%2BYqWI%2BwvVzZcroJQf7n2SH195SqZx3mBGC5XVfwn7CPXHtbBV64IQbt3VQ5%2Fl1s%2BYMPQkXz5lNfyATsGm3z5y3XAfqGZeXnFdcBmoZl5ecV1wE6hmXl5xXXATqGZeXnFdcBO4YXMyyfMYsDbGCJEANQwZar9F%2Fj7gB3wPtYF1qugPftedoJlk%2Fk52GJGAa37BcogkLzFFiEgEWqzxVwAgc7w9lknXDlgw4AIlUCJ%2BoqArc8lLbiYAF7MrAa3or%2BCrb0s38g8lFVebCXX%2FwA%3D) is where I got the first version of the measurements from, unfortunately I think it is in tenths of inches :-(.

Verious MDN documentation:

- [Getting Started with SVG](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG)
- [SVG element reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element)
- [Positions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Positions)
- [fill-opacity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/fill-opacity)
- [&lt;rect&gt;](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/rect)

Various Stack Overflow documentation:

- [SVG rounded corner](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10177985/svg-rounded-corner)
- [Subtract one circle from another in SVG](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22579508/subtract-one-circle-from-another-in-svg)
- [Convert SVG to PNG in Python](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6589358/convert-svg-to-png-in-python)

And finally December.com: [Scalable Vector Graphics Color Names](https://www.december.com/html/spec/colorsvg.html).

[Convertico](https://convertico.com/) for PNG to ICO conversion, much better then alternatives.

## License

Copyright (C) 2023 Chris Speck

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

To view the full text of the license see [LICENSE](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update readme with instructions for less experienced users

README.md, after:

# X-Touch Mini FS2020 Template Maker

Utility to turn your [X-Touch Mini FS2020](https://github.com/maartentamboer/X-Touch-Mini-FS2020) configs into SVGs and PNGs.

The PNGs have transparent regions and can be used with paper desktop CNCs such as the Cricut (Print & Cut) to quickly generate paper templates.

This allows you to rapidly experiment with and change your bindings.

You need to have the following installed to `c:`

- [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/)
- [X-Touch Mini FS2020](https://github.com/maartentamboer/X-Touch-Mini-FS2020) (unzip anywhere on `c:`)

## Installation

1. Download the latest version from [the releases page ( `xtouch-template-maker.zip` )](https://github.com/cgspeck/X-Touch-Mini-FS2020-TemplateMaker/releases).
2. Unzip anywhere (e.g. `C:\bin\x-touch-template-maker`)
3. Double-click / run the file `Xtouch Template Maker`, e.g. `C:\bin\x-touch-template-maker\Xtouch Template Maker.exe`

**_IMPORTANT:_** The first time you run the application you may be blocked by a Windows Defender SmartScreen prompt ("**_Windows protected your PC..._**"). This is a niche hobby application, not a trojan/virus and you can validate this by uploading the release to [Virus Total](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/home/upload). **To get past the SmartScreen prompt, click "More Info" then "Run anyway"**

## Development

Clone the repository and install Python3.9+

Enable [long path support](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/how-to-enable-or-disable-win32-long-paths-in-windows-11-10) if you haven't already done that as part of the python install.

Create and activate a virtual environment:

```
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

Install dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Run:

```
# opens config file selector
python -m template_maker.main

# alternatively, give it a path to a config
python -m template_maker.main --config  c:\bin\X-Touch-Mini-FS2020\Configurations\config_generic_ap.json --preview
```

If you run it without the config flag then a file open dialog will be displayed to allow you to select an aircraft configuration.

Alternatively, you can use the `run.bat` to start the app, after you've set up the virtual environment and installed dependencies as above:

```
run
```

Running the tests:

```
test
```

## Current limitations

- only processes and displays values for Layer A
- does not emit secondary button text (`event_long_press`)

## Inspiration

[Reddit: r/Behringer - Behringer X-Touch mini - Free Layout](https://www.reddit.com/r/Behringer/comments/k0xeeg/behringer_xtouch_mini_free_layout/) and the corresponding link to [Draw.io](https://viewer.diagrams.net/index.html?highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&nav=1&title=Behringer%20X-Touch%20mini.drawio#R3Zpbb9owGIZ%2FDZe1fD7clnZM09ZNYlO33mXEkEgBszQdtL9%2BDjjNETXVqOokXJC8tmP7yYf9vSgTMl3vZ2mwjb6YUCcTDMP9hFxNMEZKQPuVK49OQZgdlVUah04rhXn8pJ3oGq4e4lDf1ypmxiRZvK2LC7PZ6EVW04I0Nbt6taVJ6r1ug5VuCfNFkLTV2zjMomIaXJUFH3W8ilzXEotjwTooKruZ3EdBaHYViVxPyDQ1JjuerfdTneT0Ci7Hdh9OlD4PLNWbrE%2BD1cWaLJfbH78%2FmdtfPxdJ%2FP3z9YW7y98geXATdoPNHgsCqXnYhDq%2FCZqQy10UZ3q%2BDRZ56c4%2BdKtF2Tpxxcs4SaYmMemhLbk8fKzeHmzRs04zva9IbvAzbdY6Sx9tlaKUO5AulIh017vKc8FCAYapej6OVaLKE6IQASZIWYW7aHGRsnruuYRpTxzPbrZ35ubP1d18821GvqqnCM9ubvdnZ3sCWAfW0wwFA4LVMapSqpGkEkDcwY8ICKCQ%2Fw%2BtMyDpy9DsXeyvX78MLLjfHpeEZbzPITejc3o4ct1sMrf0EFVcuw5PMX5N6BKKQZ06pe3gVRLQYnWsAs918ka4yRhx25UQQATLw1P2cozwKaeexnoxjHHxZpL7yhuPkbeA0lfeo9w7JYG%2B8uZj5K2Yr7kKHeV%2BiaDwdcNkPTbM17nDkiVSb%2BsWMWWA16gyiYCgLbBUAFysnDWbwyzYNyN7dt%2F9nmQ5l%2F6Q7ZF0%2BEqWWI5Q%2BRu0Pcyir2ipgl6j7ZG6%2BYqWI%2BwvVzZcroJQf7n2SH195SqZx3mBGC5XVfwn7CPXHtbBV64IQbt3VQ5%2Fl1s%2BYMPQkXz5lNfyATsGm3z5y3XAfqGZeXnFdcBmoZl5ecV1wE6hmXl5xXXATqGZeXnFdcBO4YXMyyfMYsDbGCJEANQwZar9F%2Fj7gB3wPtYF1qugPftedoJlk%2Fk52GJGAa37BcogkLzFFiEgEWqzxVwAgc7w9lknXDlgw4AIlUCJ%2BoqArc8lLbiYAF7MrAa3or%2BCrb0s38g8lFVebCXX%2FwA%3D) is where I got the first version of the measurements from, unfortunately I think it is in tenths of inches :-(.

Verious MDN documentation:

- [Getting Started with SVG](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG)
- [SVG element reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element)
- [Positions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Positions)
- [fill-opacity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute/fill-opacity)
- [&lt;rect&gt;](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/rect)

Various Stack Overflow documentation:

- [SVG rounded corner](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10177985/svg-rounded-corner)
- [Subtract one circle from another in SVG](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22579508/subtract-one-circle-from-another-in-svg)
- [Convert SVG to PNG in Python](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6589358/convert-svg-to-png-in-python)

And finally December.com: [Scalable Vector Graphics Color Names](https://www.december.com/html/spec/colorsvg.html).

[Convertico](https://convertico.com/) for PNG to ICO conversion, much better then alternatives.

## License

Copyright (C) 2023 Chris Speck

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

To view the full text of the license see [LICENSE](./LICENSE).
